MAN: And I think many
people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
MAN: People are basically
[INAUDIBLE] to help them
cover what really happened.
WOMAN: I felt like
something was watching me.
MAN: We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
We're going to scare
the living daylights out
of view with Paul Eno.
He's a parallel investigator.
He and his son Ben have been
doing this for a long time.
They've got their
own radio show.
We'll talk about that as well.
And you just love the
unusual, don't you?
Oh, I think I do.
I got that from my father, who
also loved the unusual, George.
Is that how it started for you?
Yeah, well, as a
matter of fact, yes.
He had a scrapbook
of everything weird
that happened in the
1940s, '50s, and '60s.
But the real clincher
was in 1961--
and it took me a long time to
be able to talk about this--
was that he took his own life.
And I was there.
GEORGE: Oh, sorry to hear that.
I was seven years old.
And I was in a Catholic
school at the time.
And when you did things like
eating hot dogs on Fridays
or committing suicide,
you went to hell.
GEORGE: You don't do that.
That's right.
And I said, this
wonderful man who
was home with me because
he'd had heart problems
went to hell?
And that just-- I
couldn't believe that.
So years later, I
entered the seminary.
And I began to wonder
about the doctrine
of purgatory, Roman
Catholic doctrine.
If you're not quite
good enough to go
to heaven, and not quite
bad enough to go to hell,
you went to Purgatory.
You're like in
limbo, sort of, right?
That kind of thing.
Yeah.
And so I wondered, you
know, is this maybe
what's behind our
notion of ghosts,
which are experienced in all
cultures throughout history.
And I said, is my father
maybe in purgatory?
I mean, he wasn't even a Roman
Catholic, but what the hey.
You know?
So I started just--
that's what got me
going in paranormal research.
And my first case was a
result of that question.
Are ghosts really
souls in purgatory?
And I got answers
I never expected.
When you were seven years
old and this tragedy occurred,
did you know what
had happened then,
or did your mother tell
you later on in life?
Well, I kind of knew what was--
I wasn't-- well, I don't want
to get into the gory details.
GEORGE: I understand.
I understand.
I didn't understand
what was happening.
And I turned and went to
a friend's house instead.
Back when seven-year-olds could
walk safely down the street.
And I've had to live
with that my whole life.
And I think that's
really the background
to my quest to find
out what's really
going on in the paranormal.
Have you ever communicated
with him on the other side?
That is a pregnant
question, obviously.
I don't know if it's the
right question, George.
I love you dearly,
but I don't know
if that's the right question.
OK.
If we ask the wrong questions--
Rephrase it.
OK.
Are you still with your
father, rather than,
is your father still with you?
And this gets into what I
learned over a number of cases,
and how I learned that
the spiritualist approach,
that we're dealing with
spirits of dead people
when we're dealing with ghosts,
I don't believe that anymore.
I think it's far deeper
and far more interesting.
So the question is, am
I still with my father?
And I think, yes, in
many, many parallel worlds
where he never died, he's been
a real presence in my life.
We didn't have hauntings and
poltergeists after the suicide.
There was nothing.
Very peaceful.
I have dealt with
a lot of suicides,
and that's usually not the case.
So I think it's a matter
of him-- it's all us,
in all these parallel realities.
We're getting a
little ahead, maybe.
But it's all us.
We're one super being.
And we're with him
in many worlds.
It's not that he's
here, but we're there.
And it's all real.
Amazingly real.
The media is really
beginning to get
interested in this field.
We just had the story just a few
days ago of a boy in Cleveland
who apparently had
died for 20 minutes.
And he says he saw Jesus.
And Jesus told him, don't
worry, you'll be OK.
And then he revived.
I don't know if that's a
figment of his imagination,
or if that's his brain reacting
with lack of oxygen or what.
But doctors confirmed his
heart stopped for 20 minutes,
and he comes out with
this incredible story.
We're seeing television programs
devoted to the supernatural
and life after death.
What's going on, Paul?
Why so much?
Well, I think we're seeing a
decline of organized religion.
And that was where people
went when they wanted to know,
am I going to be OK?
Because really, that's
the ultimate question.
When you get to your
deathbed, your bank accounts,
business affairs,
none of that's really
going to matter in the end.
GEORGE: Nothing means anything.
It's, am I going to be OK?
And are my loved
ones going to be OK?
People used to go to
that for religion.
But now, I think they're
turning to the paranormal more
and more, which may be a good
idea, or it might not be,
because there's a lot
of misinformation.
So but I really
think-- and yeah,
we've talked about this many
times-- parallel worlds, which
are accepted in physics,
usually in one way or another,
are really responsible
for a lot of these,
or if not all
paranormal experiences.
And I'm thinking one thing, if
I may just go into something.
An event much like
that with an adult,
he would usually call
it-- we would usually call
it a near death experience.
GEORGE: Right.
He was on an operating table.
But what happened to him
is something I've run
into on a number of occasions.
I call it the flashing nexus.
Tell me about that.
PAUL: OK.
-What is that?
-All right.
He lay there.
And instead of sort
of being above,
there's a little bit of
being above the table
looking down on himself.
But all of a sudden,
he was the doctor.
And then all of a sudden,
he was one of the nurses.
And then he was a guy
sitting out in the hallway.
And he said, what is this about?
And he was on our show.
And I said, oh, you
experienced the flashing nexus.
Because ultimately,
we're not only
one super person across
all these worlds--
not all the worlds.
We're not in every one.
But all possibilities exist.
And that's what
physics seems to say.
Everything that can be will be,
was, could be, really exists.
And he was that nurse
in a parallel world,
or-- it's all sort
of simultaneous.
And he is the doctor
in a parallel world.
And he actually
experienced that.
The problem with that
is that in our society,
they're going to call
you schizophrenic.
Or they're going to
try to medicate you.
Well, they are.
Precisely.
And I learned-- when
I was in the seminary,
I worked in several psychiatric
hospitals in the ward,
ostensibly in a
pastoral capacity.
Actually, I was working with
a priest was an exorcist.
And we were taking
care some of that when
the doctors just couldn't--
GEORGE: A real life exorcist?
Yes, when the doctors
couldn't handle it.
So that's another story.
But I was dealing
with people who
were supposedly schizophrenic.
But they were-- and I'd
stake my life on it.
They were living in
worlds that were real.
Some of them were
terrible worlds,
but others-- and our
society can't deal
with but one world of the time.
And so they were, as you say,
medicated, and a lot of them
were in-patients.
More in-patients in the
'70s than there are now.
But I think they were
more aware than we are.
But you have to keep
your feet on the ground,
or you're going to
end up like that.
That's the problem.
This is reality
in our experience.
Paul, this quest of ours,
this need to find out what's
on the other side, does
it exist after I die,
has been around since
the beginning of man.
At this point in your
life and career--
and you've investigated
many cases.
We're going to talk about some
of them on the program today.
What have you concluded
about what it might be?
I think that there is
no single other side.
OK.
I began asking myself,
why do we see ghosts
in clothes, driving cars?
Why did I stand in those
woods in Connecticut
in that first case in
1971 and hear an ox cart
going by, the guy yelling,
yah, cracking a whip,
and not seeing anything?
Seven of us witnessed this.
And I said because the other
side is actually billions
and billions of other sides.
Maybe an infinite
number of other sides,
in many of which we
ourselves live, perhaps
in some other form and
as some other person,
I think that
explains everything,
and that's the interpretation
of quantum mechanics
that we sort of embrace, and
that many physicists embrace.
So many, many other sides.
Physical, just as physical is
here, although in other forms--
GEORGE: In other forms.
There could be ones that
are like spirits, I suppose.
But I think we interpret
things in the way
that we most easily understand.
And to take the idea
of quantum mechanics
and parallel worlds,
that could be
tough on our limited
understanding.
I think our remote
ancestors understand.
Understood it.
Because when you
go back-- well, I
did a study of the Nicobar
and Andaman Islanders
in the Indian Ocean,
whose tradition
goes back over 100,000 years.
Living tradition.
GEORGE: That's a long time.
It's a long time.
This is what they
believe, if you talk
about it in a practical way.
Shamans.
I dealt with one in
Australia and one in Quebec.
Cree and aboriginal.
He told me the same things.
Said, you're on the right track.
And then there's--
GEORGE: And isn't
it strange how all
those different cultures seem
to focus in on the same thing?
PAUL: Exactly.
Exactly.
But we interpret it in
our narrow paradigm,
our Western way of thinking,
where we have to pigeonhole
everything, and make sure
that we can understand it,
whether we understand it or not.
And we come out with a sort of
two-dimensional spiritualist
kind of approach.
And don't want to insult
anybody who's a spiritualist,
but I don't believe it that way.
Religions would hate you.
PAUL: Well, I am not too
popular amongst some of them.
But on the other hand, there
are some priests and nuns
of the orthodox variety who
will say they listen to our show
because they say, that's the
way we kind of look at it.
GEORGE: That's the way it is.
Which kind of intrigued me.
Do you think
religions originally
started because they
wanted to control
us in this physical life?
And so you talk about, you
must be good, you must do this,
stay out of hell.
Well, religion is an
interesting question.
That brings us to the question
of science versus religion.
Now, with our remote ancestors,
had there been no questions,
had there been no contact
with what they believed
were supernatural beings,
there would have been no need
for religion or for science.
Because you wouldn't have
had to explain everything.
So I think that religion and
science started together.
They have the same
mother, the paranormal.
And they have been on
really parallel paths
ever since the beginning.
Only recently have
they come into-- people
don't realize that, that
they really weren't at odds.
So religion, I think,
was hijacked by the worst
part of human nature at times.
And I don't want to
denigrate all of it,
because it works
for many people.
And it can be very,
very positive.
But I have to say that
it can be very negative.
In many of the cases we worked
with, some of the nastiest
ones, the people were very
devout and devoted to a rather
negative-- well, let's
just use the old time
Roman Catholic
spirituality as an example,
what I grew up with.
And it was feeding these things.
It wasn't fighting them.
It was feeding them.
In my opinion.
So yeah, it depends
how you use it.
It can be positive.
It can be negative.
Paul, let's get
into that Connecticut
case, which was really your
first big case, wasn't it?
Well, other than
the one with the ox
cart driving whipping
his horse, and yelling,
and not being seen.
This was a big one in 1974.
I was working with Ed and
Lorraine Warren, of all people.
GEORGE: Ed is no longer with.
PAUL: No, no.
He died a few years ago.
GEORGE: At least on this plane.
-That's right.
On some parallel world, he's
still kicking, and carrying on,
and doing great things.
Doing his thing.
But Lorraine is
advanced in years.
And I'm out of touch with
them since the 1970s.
But in any case, what happened
was I was down on the way
to their house on a certain
Sunday in November of 1974.
I was on vacation
from the seminary.
And Lorraine, fabulous cook.
Looking forward to dinner
with Ed and Lorraine.
Right?
Well, I never got my
dinner, because when
I got to the house, she came
leaping out the door and said,
are you in a high
spiritual state right now?
That's the red flag for
something's coming down.
Off we go into Bridgeport,
and this case was
well documented in the press.
We were getting calls
from as far away
as Australia from journalists.
And the whole city--
Bridgeport is not a small town.
GEORGE: It's not a small town.
PAUL: And the place
was upside down.
There were up to 10,000 people
gathered outside that house
at any one time, so I was told.
GEORGE: What happened?
Well, we went in
after it had begun.
There had been pounding on the
walls for months before this.
Strange things were happening.
And I've often found that
when a poltergeist begins,
it starts slowly.
Then it'll [INAUDIBLE] then.
And as people get more annoyed,
more frightened, more angry,
it gets more energy.
It gets more to eat.
And hence, our modern
idea of parasites, but I
didn't know that then.
So what we did was to go in.
And it took a while for us to
get-- it sort of has to accept
you into its chemical mix.
And the place was a mess.
Something had been
wheeling the little girl's
baby carriage around.
This was a couple
in their 40's with
a 10-year-old adopted child.
And it was filled with
clothes, this baby carriage.
Religious objects-- this is an
example of Roman Catholic kind
of negative spirituality
in my opinion.
Religious objects have
been torn from the walls,
thrown to the floor.
Knives had come out
of the kitchen drawer.
GEORGE: Whoa.
Exactly.
GEORGE: Yeah.
I can handle religious
artifacts being flown around,
but not knives.
But not knives flying
around the kitchen.
So the first thing that
I heard was several hours
after we got there, and there
were police and firefighters.
And we stood there and
watched a 300 pound
refrigerator lift up off
the floor, turnaround,
and set itself back down.
-How high up?
A couple inches?
Three feet or so.
Three feet?
Yeah, yeah.
Police officers on one side of
me, firefighters on the other.
-And everybody's watching this?
-Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, this was in their reports.
The official police reports.
GEORGE: This is big.
So then, all of a sudden,
you hear this huge crash.
And an enormous chest of drawers
in the little girl's room
flew across the room
and hit the wall.
And things just sort
of took off from there.
And we didn't get any sleep.
We didn't get anything to eat.
And the Warrens had left
to go do an interview.
And all you wanted was dinner.
-All I wanted was dinner.
-That was it.
Right?
So I got more than that.
So I never get anything to eat.
So anyway, I was standing
with the little girl
in a corner of the living room.
Very small house.
And there was a reporter from
the "Bridgeport Post," John
[INAUDIBLE], there
was a neighbor,
and they were Mr. and Mrs.
[INAUDIBLE], was their name.
And the little girl
and I were reading
a prayer from an orthodox prayer
book, just in praise of Christ.
It wasn't a kind of exorcism
or anything like this.
GEORGE: Right.
Weren't trying to
chase out anything?
And Father Bill Sharpener,
the priest who was involved,
and the Warrens,
and I were sitting
around waiting for the
Catholic Diocese of Bridgeport
to agree to an exorcism.
GEORGE: OK.
Which they never did.
So we're kicking
around, listening
to all this stuff happening.
GEORGE: Meanwhile,
people were outside.
PAUL: People are gathering
outside with the police
and everything else.
So all of a sudden, something
happened in the kitchen.
You could look down
the hallway and see
almost these gauzy structures
taking shape, coming
out of the little girl's room.
Mr. Goodman, who said he had
wanted to be a priest at one
time, and had a beautiful
bass voice, like you do,
started chanting in
Latin in the kitchen.
GEORGE: Did he know Latin?
PAUL: Well, that's
what I asked him.
He said, well, you know,
I used to be an altar boy.
I said, well, so was I,
but I had to study five
years of the bloody stuff--
Yeah, and I went to catechism,
and I don't know Latin.
Yeah.
So anyway, so he came
back into the room.
I'm trying to figure that.
And then these four things.
There's a graphic
on the screen here
now about these four things.
They didn't look like what
they look like in the graphic.
But there was one point
where one came up to me.
I could tell it was trying
to get to the little girl.
I put her behind me.
I instinctively
pushed against it.
I felt a physical structure.
I felt skeletal
structure, which it
looked kind of like the
illustrations in the diagram
there.
It pushed back, got around me,
and through the little girl
across the room.
So at this point, the
energy in that house,
it felt like if you lit a
fuse, it would have exploded.
So I pulled everybody out.
We went out onto the sidewalk.
Fortunately, the police had
quartered off the streets.
Because we would
have walked right
in the middle of the crowd.
GEORGE: Right.
Absolutely.
And no cell phones, of
course, in these times.
I ran next door to use the
phone to call the Warrens
and ask them to come back.
And something followed me.
There was a knock-- after
I went into the house,
the little boy said,
Mom, the priest
wants to use the telephone.
I wasn't a priest.
I was just a seminary student.
-Were you in a garment?
-No, no.
Just ordinary clothes.
Father [INAUDIBLE]
was in-- but he wasn't
there either at this point.
So I went in,
called the Warrens.
Took them an hour to
get back 10 miles,
to get back into the city
because of all this chaos.
Something pounded on the door
after I went into the house,
and the little boy said, Mommy,
there's nobody at the door.
Because they open in there.
I said, you want
to make a bet kids?
So off I went.
And when we went back into the
house, when the Warrens came,
things had calmed down,
and the radio was on,
and they were speculating about
why we had left the house.
So this went on.
So the next day was Tuesday.
And the Warrens had
to go do something.
But we had gone to their
house for a few hours just
to get some sleep.
And I had to go back to
Hartford to my house, just
to take a shower and stuff.
So I'm listening to WCBS in
New York, and all of a sudden,
they said, oh, the police have
declared this Bridgeport hoax
to be a hoax.
This Bridgeport ghost.
GEORGE: That's what they said.
That's what they said.
I said, wait a minute.
And just before I left,
the little girl hugged me,
and the mother hugged me.
Mrs. [INAUDIBLE] said,
make sure you come back.
Please come back.
And then we hear this.
So I went back about 2 o'clock--
And nobody was talking
hoax when you were there?
PAUL: Of course not.
You don't stand there with
police and firefighters
and watch huge things
floating through the air,
and some little kid doing it.
I mean, give me a break.
So we went back at 2 o'clock.
I was thrown off the
property by a police officer.
So Ed Warren and I
were on the radio--
GEORGE: Did he
know who you were--
Oh, yeah.
That's why he threw
me off the property.
All right.
They thought you
were rabble-rouser.
The hoaxer.
-Yeah.
Absolutely.
So Ed Warren and I were on the
radio for a couple of days,
battling back and
forth with the police.
And of course, the whole
thing descended into chaos.
And all we heard later on was
that the little girl had been
taken to Fairfield
Psychiatric State Hospital,
which mercifully now is closed.
GEORGE: Right.
Ghost hunters go in there now.
And there's still
things happening.
I heard they had to
sink their Christmas
tree in concrete
at Christmas time,
because it kept floating around.
But that's a hoax.
Right?
[LAUGHING] Right.
Perpetrated by a
10-year-old child.
Amazing.
PAUL: Unbelievable.
So a new book has been written
about this by Bill Hall.
It just came out last year, "The
World's Most Haunted House."
And great book, and he
really gets it right.
GEORGE: Is the
house still there?
PAUL: It's still there.
Yeah, yeah.
Little place.
You'd never suspect.
GEORGE: Same family?
Or are they--
PAUL: Oh, no, no, no.
Well, the parents
both passed away.
The little girl,
at the age of 50,
passed away only a few
months ago, we found out.
GEORGE: Oh, that's sad.
-Very sad.
Yeah.
She had MS.
And the family
that's there now,
do we know anything about them,
or what might be happening?
They keep
themselves, obviously.
One of the the things in this
case that I would look at today
is, were things happening
in other houses?
And Bill Hall looked into this.
Sure enough, there were.
There was also an increase
in UFO activity at that time.
Now, you could say, well,
maybe it wasn't connected,
maybe it wasn't.
But I tend to think it is--
GEORGE: Or maybe it was.
--because of the
sort of process
of these multi-versal intersects
that we were talking about.
So a nasty case.
Paul, let's talk
about some other cases
that you've looked at.
One is called The Lost Village.
What is that?
Well, that was the first case
with the guy with the whip,
and you couldn't see him.
GEORGE: That was called
The Lost Village?
That was The Lost Village,
or The Village of Voices.
GEORGE: Explain that
a little bit more.
Because we just basically
talked six or seven witnesses
seeing that.
PAUL: Sure.
Sure.
-What happened there?
OK.
Well, that was
only one thing that
occurred in an abandoned village
in Northeast Connecticut.
And it was all overgrown,
of course, by this time.
The last people had moved out
of there in the late 1800s.
And there were some cellar
holes where the houses had been,
and then a little
cemetery up the hill
where they were
buried, most of them.
And I later found out there that
I was related to these people.
We're an old New England
family, and we just
crawled out of there
with the first lungfish
onto the shores of
New England, and just
married everybody else.
So it turned out these
were relatives of mine.
Well, there were a lot of things
that happened in that case
that I write about in my
book, "Faces at the Window."
As soon as we walked
into this area--
and we was a local
historian and six
other seminary students who
didn't get in as much trouble
as I did.
GEORGE: Right.
And we could hear the
sounds of daily life,
and there was no one around.
Farm implements
banging together.
Cows mooing.
Dogs barking.
People talking as if
it was a normal day
in the life of somebody else.
And as we proceeded into
the cellar hole area,
this just continued.
It would rise and fall a bit.
This is August.
No insects.
No birds.
Nothing.
Very strange.
-Right.
And there was a certain
feeling of depression.
You know--
When you don't hear insects,
it's a weird, weird sound
of nothing.
PAUL: It's a sound of nothing.
Now, that night we went
back, and we stood on a hill
over the Nightingale Brook,
as it's called, where
these people had had a mill.
And we could hear
children laughing.
And we kind of
walked down towards--
and the odd thing about
this was that the sound was
moving up and down
the brook, I'd
say, at about 60 miles an hour.
No road, no houses, nothing.
And I knew, George,
some of those children
I don't know how I
knew it, and I never
wrote about this, because
I was in enough trouble
already in the seminary.
If they thought there
mediumistic about this,
I would have been
fried before I was.
And I just buried it.
I couldn't deal with it.
And we couldn't record it.
It was like EVPs, or Electronic
Voice Phenomenon in reverse.
We could hear, but not record.
When these things
are happening to you,
and you were still
in the seminary,
did you begin to
question, why am I here?
Why am I doing this?
PAUL: Not just yet.
I began to question
my initial idea
that this might be purgatory.
These people showed no
sign of being dead at all,
never mind being in purgatory.
GEORGE: Yeah.
Right?
So I said, are we dealing
more with time and space?
GEORGE: A time warp?
-Than death?
Yeah.
And I didn't know about
a lot of this stuff then.
A lot of people didn't
know about quantum physics.
The physicists did.
GEORGE: But they never
tied it together with his.
But the popular books
hadn't been written.
They never tied it
together with this.
And a number of other
things happened,
like the ox cart driver.
I think there's a
graphic on the screen
now, if people look to the left.
-What is that?
What are we looking at there?
Well, this is the little
cemetery I mentioned.
GEORGE: OK.
PAUL: And if they
look to the left,
and sort of up in
the trees there,
there is a bright spot that
we-- and we made sure we
had these negatives tested.
No digital photography
in those days.
They said this is
not a reflection.
It's an anomaly, or an extra.
It shouldn't really be there.
We saw that with our
naked eye the night
after this picture was taken.
Now, in the 1950s, I
should say, a woman
wrote a book of local history
in which she mentioned
that the people of this
village were afraid to go
to the cemetery at
night because of quote,
"ghosts seen reclining
in the branches
of a certain elm tree."
This was an elm tree.
GEORGE: That's the one.
PAUL: And here it
is, 200 years later.
So that was before
we knew enough not
to use permanent ink on there.
GEORGE: What is the story
of the poltergeist of 1974?
Well, it it was '75.
GEORGE: '75?
Yeah.
That was New Haven, Connecticut,
not too far from Bridgeport.
That was the worst
poltergeist I ever dealt with.
But we got rid of it
using a joke book.
GEORGE: A joke book?
A joke book.
That's right.
How did that work?
Well, we're trying
to make it laugh.
This is the only picture--
I might need some of these
jokes for some of my events
that I'm at.
-That's right.
Or even some of your guests.
In any case, I got a call
one day from a fellow who
I'd been in the seminary with.
He said, you're not going
to believe this one.
So down I went from Hartford
to the New Haven area.
And this was a store, one of
these the convenience stores
with a little apartment on top.
The owners had lived
in the apartment.
And they had had
to close the store
because all this goofy
stuff was happening.
And the woman, she
was a real warrior.
Sort of very strong personality.
She had to close
the store, and said
that it was being repaired, so
nobody would get suspicious.
But I came to the door--
GEORGE: That was her excuse.
That was her excuse.
She said, are you Paul?
I said, yes.
Grabbed me by the
sleeve and pulled me in.
Right?
And I swear I saw a bottle
of soda hanging in the air,
but it was all dark.
I really couldn't tell.
So up we go to the
apartment, which looked
like it'd been hit by a bomb.
Closest I ever saw to
Hollywood's depiction
of this sort of stuff.
There were obscenities
scrawled on the walls,
plaster had been ripped down.
GEORGE: Horrible.
I no sooner got there
when she screamed.
I turned around, and
there was a leather
chair the size of a Volkswagen
heading for my head.
This conversation might
not be taking place.
The thing went right over, hit
the wall, cracked the wall.
And how long have we been
putting up with this?
She said, oh, the
better part of a year.
And I said, poltergeist
usually don't last that long.
Not at this strength.
So to make a long
story short, there were
about six or seven of them.
And she had taken it upon
herself to battle them
using all the wrong weapons.
Ouija boards.
That's the worst
thing you can do.
GEORGE: That's the worst
thing you could have.
Yeah.
Throw gasoline on the
file, why don't you?
-Yeah, exactly.
She had a medium come in.
And with all due
respect to mediums,
they don't understand the
forces or the processes
they're dealing when they
think it's dead people.
Some girl, bitter, angry--
GEORGE: They're very
naive about this.
I think so.
Yeah.
Came through and said she had
been murdered in that spot
in the 1820s or something.
Now that spot had
been a cornfield.
And that doesn't mean somebody
couldn't have been murdered.
But it was all nonsense.
GEORGE: Right.
Maybe he's still buried there.
-Well, no.
We didn't find anything.
GEORGE: Nothing.
So these are buttons that
parasitical entities-- this
is what these are,
in my opinion--
they push in order to eat.
That's all it is.
They're lifeforms.
They're part of nature.
GEORGE: This is the way
they get their energy.
This is their MO.
So by the time I got
there, they had pretty much
started running out of steam.
So I said, what do you
about this kind of stuff?
Yeah, you could bring in the
holy water, and the priests,
and all this stuff.
But you know,
sometimes that works,
and sometimes it doesn't work.
What always works in
my experience is-- Ben
and I call it the
Peter Pan theory.
Think happy thoughts.
That's what it is.
John Lennon was right.
All you need is love, right?
You come together
with your family.
She had a she had a daughter,
14-year-old daughter, who was
kind of a tough [INAUDIBLE].
We came.
We got her back in.
We sat down that night.
My friend was there.
I had the joke book.
We laughed it up.
We had a great time.
Those things were never
seen or heard from again.
What a great story.
PAUL: You know, it was great.
What drives you,
Paul, in this field?
Because you don't give up.
And your son Ben as well.
No, nobody keeps
me down for long.
What drives me
personally-- well,
as I mentioned before the show,
I'm a 62-year-old millennial.
I love new things.
I want to find out
what's going on.
You know, daily life,
my wife will tell you,
I'm not too good at daily life.
But as far as finding out
what is really behind things--
You're good at that.
I like to find that out.
That's why our show is called
"Behind the Paranormal."
And our motto is "Everything
you know is wrong.
Start again."
There are a lot of
hobbyists out there
who treat ghost hunting, a
term like this, [INAUDIBLE].
It's like the
party night, right?
Well, it's that, and
it's like bird watching
or butterfly collecting.
You can't approach it that way.
It's too dangerous.
And I think it was '06, I
found myself against my better
judgment addressing
a group of neophyte
ghost hunters in
Florida, a conference
for beginning ghost hunters.
And somebody said,
oh Paul, if you
had one word of advice to give
to the group, what would it be?
I said, don't.
And 230 people started at me.
And I said, however,
here we all,
so we're going to
have to deal with.
And then we went on
to talk about it.
But it's not something
people should be doing
as if they're playing soccer.
They're dealing with things--
GEORGE: -or a party.
Or a party.
They have no idea what
they're dealing with,
what they're touching,
what this involves.
What this can bring
into their lives.
And I really cringe
when they start
to counsel people who are in
homes that are having problems.
I had a show on Coast to
Coast several years ago
that I was building up
as my Ouija board show.
I remember that.
And I backed out.
Now, was it smart to back out?
Or was I just being foolish?
You were smart to back out.
The Ouija board,
George, to me, is
equivalent to moving
into a new house,
wanting to meet your
next door neighbor,
and taking a bulldozer and
knocking down their front wall
in order to do the meeting.
Right?
And that's not going
to be a good thing.
You're not going to
make any friends.
You don't know what's going
to come out of that wall.
It's not a game.
A bunch of Dobermans, like.
I mean, who knows?
It's not a game.
And people say-- I had a cousin
in Florida who was almost 100
before she left us.
And she used the
Ouija board every day
to talk to her friends.
And nothing ever seemed
to happen to her.
But I told her, it's like,
you can stand in the middle
of the interstate highway.
Maybe you'll get hit.
Maybe you won't.
GEORGE: Maybe not.
But it's not worth
taking the risk.
I'm glad I didn't.
No.
It's a sledgehammer way of
cutting through boundaries
in space-time.
It's not that
spirits necessarily
come in and do things.
It's that you're just
opening so many doors
that these parasitical entities
that we always talk about
can come through and
start feeding on you.
If it works, if it is indeed
a porthole to whatever's
out there, what is happening?
Well, one thing that's
happening on our end
is that people believing what
they're being told by whatever
is doing the telling.
It'll say, well, I'm so and
so from the Middle Ages.
And you know--
GEORGE: And how do
you know, right?
Yeah.
And they just buy it.
And then all these weird
things start to happen.
I think what's happening
is that in many cases,
you're dealing with parasitical
entities who live simply--
and they're not spirits.
They're not demons.
They're not servants of Satan.
They're living.
They're lifeforms.
There are about nine
different species.
Disembodied people
who had died?
I don't think so.
I'm open to that
possibility, but I
don't think there's
any such-- I don't
want to say there's any such
thing as disembodied people.
But if you look at
this multiverse idea,
where we're living in many, many
universities at the same time,
how can you die?
How can even the body die?
I think of it as a tree.
A leaf falls off a tree.
Well, you're the
tree, not the leaf.
GEORGE: That's right.
You have billions and
billions of other lives.
And also, what's one leaf?
They go back.
Right.
So the Ouija board, I
don't think it's humans.
Or it could be something that
is human in another universe,
but has lost so much humanity
we don't recognize it.
But here's the thing, George.
This unity of life throughout
the different worlds
isn't just us.
It really extends to
the whole biosphere.
So I run into cases
where people bond,
I think, with the
parasite, which
can lead to what we in
folklore call possession,
which is a real phenomenon.
I've seen it.
Because the parasite knows
what it is that person
in a part of the multiverse.
They're very aware of
these sorts of realities.
So this parasite really
could be a part of you.
GEORGE: It could be.
That's a really scary kind of--
GEORGE: I've thought about that.
I hope not.
I hope not too.
But I've thought about that.
But when you see
these possession cases,
there's an identity here.
And it really scared me
when I first encountered.
And boy, I mean, so that's
something to be aware of.
There is an incredible,
incredible response
about investigating
the other side now.
We hear stories from
children about strange things
on the other side.
You're a paranormal
investigator.
Is science catching up with
what you do to the point
where one day, it will simply
say, of course, it exists?
Well, the science
still has-- science,
I mean, mainstream
physical science
still has trouble
with psychology,
because it's not exact.
The problem with
science, George,
and the scientific
method in particular
is that it's based on
a materialistic view
of the universe.
And that's pretty much blown
out of the water by quantum
mechanics, and even philosophy,
and everything else,
because the world doesn't
seem to be-- not only
doesn't seem to be one
world, it doesn't seem
to be entirely physical world.
So that's a problem.
You can't duplicate
things, replicate things,
that are done in the paranormal,
not even in the laboratory
when they accomplish anything.
And mainstream science
won't accept that.
I think it's mainstream
science that has to change,
not paranormal investigation.
GEORGE: I think you're right.
Let's talk about some of these
cases that you've looked at
or know.
What is the Haunter.
Well, the Haunter was 1979,
and it knocked me sideways.
Just unexpected.
I was just out of
graduate school
and had nothing, and was
living by a little cottage
by a lake in Connecticut.
GEORGE: Peaceful.
Peaceful.
Very peaceful.
And believe it or
not, I was writing
plays for the Connecticut
Dance Theatre, of all things.
GEORGE: Huh.
And all of a sudden, a call
came in from a young girl
at the University
of Connecticut.
And I was becoming
known in the field.
You know, locally, anyway.
And she said, something
happened to me over the weekend.
I'll never forget it
as long as I live.
And we just can't deal with it.
She had been in Maine
with her sister, who
was well known as someone
interested in the occult
and the paranormal.
And they'd been
with some friends.
And they were driving
by a house in what
turned out to be the town
of York, in the York Harbor,
actually.
And the young girl,
the young sister,
suddenly said, stop the
car, that's my house.
So before they could
stop her, she leaped out
of the car, which
was a convertible,
and up they ran to the
porch of this house,
knocked on the door.
The door was answered
by a woman, who screamed
when she saw this young girl.
GEORGE: No.
A man came to the door.
This was a childless
couple in their 40's.
Couldn't speak when
they saw this girl.
Everybody had the willies
by this time, so--
Trying to figure out why.
What's going on here?
PAUL: Trying to figure
out, what's going on here?
And finally the man said--
well, the young girl said,
I feel as if I know this house.
I'm sorry for bothering you.
How old was the kid?
The kid was 17.
And the man said, you
should know this house.
You haunt it.
What?
Yup.
And so everybody,
OK, see you later.
They kind of like, they
backed off the steps.
They backed down to the car.
So I said I, have to
find out about this.
GEORGE: Yeah.
They happened to get
a name on the mailbox.
As luck would have it--
GEORGE: But the 17-year-old
was a real human being, right?
Oh, sure.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, here's the story.
I managed to get in
touch with these people,
because my mother's family had
had a house, a summer house,
in that town for over 100 years.
So we had connections.
So we found out who they were.
In the meantime, the young
girl, through the Institute
of Living in Hartford,
Connecticut for the Minnesota
Multiphasic of
Personality Inventory--
spell it if you want, MMPI.
It's not a diagnostic tool.
It just says if you need some
more treatment, if there's
something else beyond the normal
neuroses, and all that stuff.
So she was fine.
It turned out she was
kind of glossed over.
Probably a couple of-- you
know, like most people.
But the thing that was
unusual about her was she
had had dreams of
being in that house.
GEORGE: Yeah, about
--doing all the
things that people later
told me they saw her doing--
-At that time.
--thinking she was a ghost.
Not at that time.
At different times, which
I found was rather odd.
They saw her sitting
in a certain chair,
looking out the front
window, in transparent form,
coming down the stairs.
Was she dreaming that,
though, at that time?
PAUL: No, not at that time, but
she was right dreaming that.
OK.
She was having these dreams.
PAUL: She knew that house.
-OK.
And the really odd thing was
that she was, in the dreams,
a mother living in this house,
and she had a couple of kids.
So somehow, her
dreams were manifesting
themselves in that house.
PAUL: In that house,
to those people.
And they were seeing
what she was streaming?
Mm-hm.
And they thought naturally
that she was a ghost.
What else could it be?
GEORGE: I would
think the same thing.
People don't look at
these other possibilities.
So I think we may have
had a rare occasion
of the same parallel
worlds being
experienced by similar people.
And as soon as they
met on that porch,
all phenomena
ceased immediately.
Never happened again.
A physicist might
say that the wave
function had been collapsed,
and the worlds had joined.
Become one.
So these people were really
fried out of their minds
about this.
GEORGE: Great story.
They were so
scared, they wouldn't
go-- they wouldn't walk around
their own house by themselves.
GEORGE: That was
an amazing story.
-Yeah.
-Nice girl?
PAUL: Yeah.
Nice kids.
Normal people.
Pushed me over the edge
into a whole new idea
about what this is about.
GEORGE: What do you
think that was all about?
The control of dreams
manifesting themselves whenever
you-- thought patterns.
Well, as I say, it really
threw me for a loop.
I was very confused.
I said, obviously, this
isn't a dead person.
So a few years later, though,
I encountered Chopra's book.
What was it?
A book about quantum
physics anyway.
It was a popular exposure
sort of quantum physics,
and an extrapolation
on what might
be possible with multiple
worlds and things of this kind.
So I said, wow,
this is what I've
been seeing all these
years, and this answers
a lot of the questions.
-Fascinating.
And to this day, I've
sort of built on that.
And it's grown and grown
and grown and grown
into a whole new interpretation.
Maybe we're wrong, but
it certainly seems to be
working out after 40 years.
I love it.
What about Bridgewater Triangle?
What's that?
Well, the Bridgewater
Triangle is
an example of where this went.
We stopped looking
at just one case
with just one
house, or one ghost,
or whatever you want to call it.
And we started
looking, gee, I wonder
if the neighbors are
having-- sure enough, we
started to uncover flap areas.
In other words, areas
where large numbers
of paranormal
phenomena are occurring
that don't necessarily
seem to be related,
but that may be related
because the same intercepts
are making them possible.
Intersects of these
parallel worlds.
So the Bridgewater Triangle
is not far from where
we live in New England.
And it's a 220-square mile
wilderness area that's
practically inside of Boston.
And people are
surprised to hear that,
because that's a big city.
It's mostly swamp area.
But since Native American
times, weird stories
have been heard about
this place-- giant
birds, strange
lights, giant snakes,
cryptids, ghosts, poltergeists.
You name it, it's in there.
GEORGE: A lot of
activity up there.
PAUL: A lot of activity.
At one point in the
'70s, a police officer
was sitting there.
He claims a Bigfoot lifted
up the back of his car
and dropped it with him in it.
GEORGE: Whoa.
And he wasn't hurt, but
he was pretty shaken up.
There's a hill called Bird
Hill, where supposedly
giant birds are seen.
When you're investigating
areas like this, George,
you always talk to hunters
because they're out there.
GEORGE: They know.
They know.
They know, and they
see some of this stuff.
GEORGE: They see this stuff.
And there are a lot of
strange normal things,
like coy dogs, I
guess you call them,
coyotes, which have come back
to New England with a vengeance.
Coyotes and dogs interbreeding.
Stuff like that.
But there are a lot of things
that they just can't explain.
Our particular experience
there has been rather odd.
We were at the head
of the lake one
time, the beautiful lake
between Fall River, Mass,
and the Freetown State Forest.
And we felt like-- I say
we, Ben and myself-- felt
like we were being watched.
[INAUDIBLE] snap a few pictures.
You have some of
the graphics here.
And when we looked
at the pictures,
there were little figures
in these pictures.
At least it looked like--
it's very perilous--
GEORGE: Like little leprechauns?
PAUL: Well, I don't know.
They looked like
normal human beings.
GEORGE: But little tiny ones?
Little tiny ones.
And this area-- and again,
you have to be careful.
Pictures taken in the woods with
sunlight, all kinds of things
can happen.
But flesh tones in nature
are very rare, unless you're
dealing with certain fungi.
And that's what made us look.
And in the middle seems
to be a full figure.
Almost--
GEORGE: A little
person on a leaf.
PAUL: Yeah.
Kind of like standing on a leaf.
And I said, OK.
I have run into the fairy
thing before in Puerto Rico.
GEORGE: Right.
But I never got any
photographs of them,
if that's what this is.
The area has little people
known as Pukwudgies.
GEORGE: Putwudgies.
-Pukwudgies.
GEORGE: Pukwudgies.
-P-U-K. Pukwudgies.
Right?
And if you look, there's sort
of almost like a monkish face
with a hood.
And it's the flesh tones
that really gave it away.
Now, maybe it's nothing.
But it really stuck out for us.
Now, the Pukwudgies are supposed
to be little people who are not
nice, and will sometimes
lead you into a bog,
or something like this.
Now, I spoke to a fellow--
To do what?
Maybe to drown.
You know, that's
happened supposedly.
Native Americans will
tell you that's happened.
We talked to a fellow who was
walking his dog in this area,
and he swears it was at night,
a little figure stepped out
from the bushes, kind
of gestured him forward,
looked very friendly, but
the dog naturally, you know,
had fit.
And so he thought that retreat
was the better part of valor,
and off they went.
So he says, he's seen the other
people say they've seen him.
The natives, the Wampanoags,
have a meeting place there.
A nice building.
But they only go
there once a year.
They don't really like it.
It's part of their
traditional lands.
GEORGE: Huh.
Is it scary?
Yeah.
There are ghost stories,
a ghostly truck.
You name it, it goes on there.
So we're investigating
that right now
as an area where you've
got not necessarily
separate things going on.
How small are they?
Two to three feet sometimes.
And sometimes smaller.
But areas where you've got
these intersects going on
between parallel worlds
where these things may live,
cross over, interact.
And that, I think, might be
the root of the paranormal.
And here it is on
a massive scale.
There's no reason
why we can't have
little people on this planet.
No, absolutely not.
GEORGE: There's no reason.
Well, you want to hear
about the Puerto Rico thing?
Because that was pretty strange.
GEORGE: Yeah.
What is that?
Do you have a title for that?
Uh,
Well, I suppose, yeah,
you can call them,
I suppose, the
fairies of San Juan.
GEORGE: The fairies of San Juan.
-Yeah.
Like a children's movie.
But in any case, I was
there in the line of duty
in the US Coast Guard.
And wherever I would go--
Thanks for serving, by the way.
Oh, you're very welcome.
It was really interesting,
especially when
I got involved in this stuff.
But with the permission
of my superiors,
I took some of the
equipment from the ship,
because one of the
crew members had
knew somebody who was a--
and these were not bumpkins.
The fellow was a real
estate-- not a tycoon,
but a real estate professional.
And the wife was a doctor.
And they said that
fairies would clean
their house every Saturday.
They would go for a walk.
The fairies would
clean their house.
Fairies would
-That's nice of them.
-Yeah.
Where do you hire these people?
Cheap labor.
-Yeah, exactly.
They come back.
And the breakfast
dishes would be done.
Everything would be done.
Just take a walk.
And they'd leave
beer and fruit--
GEORGE: Out?
-Out.
And it would be gone.
Not the dietary combination--
GEORGE: You mean for them?
For the fairies.
Yeah.
So I came in.
I said, well, I
have to see this.
So I set up cameras
and everything else.
And I went for the walk with
them that Saturday morning.
We came back, and
nothing was done.
And I almost had to
do the housework.
Because they said, oh, they
were scared by the cameras.
Oh, they decided they weren't
gonna clean this time, huh?
And I'm just, you know, well,
maybe they're making this stuff
up, but these are not
the kind of people
who would make this stuff up.
They had children, and the
children swore to this.
So I never took
pictures of the fairies.
I prevented them from appearing.
But they apparently
knew whatever--
Ben often points
out the word fairy
sort of implies disbelief.
And if you use
other words for it,
perhaps it would be more
credible, but fairies,
people understand that.
Tell me about Room 305.
PAUL: Room 305.
I like that name, Room 305.
Really dark kind
of case in a way.
Massachusetts School
District, big old school
built in the 1920s.
And it was really funny, because
the superintendent of schools
called me on the phone.
And it took him awhile
to get to the point.
He said, are you Paul,
the ghost expert?
And he said, I don't know
how to tell you this,
and I said, just
get to the point.
Right?
GEORGE: Yeah.
Tell me.
The school was having
all kinds of problems.
The janitors didn't want
to go into this Room 305.
Teachers didn't
want to teach there.
Kids were unruly there.
It was a classroom?
It was the classroom.
Furniture would be
rearranged in the morning.
There would be
strange things written
on the chalkboard
nobody could read.
There would even be
chalk dust in the air,
and nobody had been in there.
So everybody was
getting spooked out.
And the problem with this
was that it was a school.
And as you know, any kind of
rumor of any kind of ghost
in a school is going
to get embellished
and carried on for generations,
and it's going to create
chaos in the halls of learning.
GEORGE: And it gets bigger
and bigger and bigger.
Bigger and bigger and bigger.
So they decided to call me in.
I had to meet with
the school committee,
equivalent of the school board.
And they swore me to secrecy
that you cannot bring a camera,
you cannot write about this
for five years, and you cannot
name-- I had to sign a paper.
You cannot name the
school district, and you
cannot talk about this--
Any place.
Media.
Not even my show?
Yeah, well, I didn't realize
I was going to be on your show,
so they're just going
to have to live with it.
But again, this is way back.
1993, as a matter of fact.
So I went in, and I
didn't have a camera.
And I said, you're just going
to have to take me in there.
The principal,
meanwhile, was kind
of hovering annoyingly around as
I was getting ready to do this.
But then he kind
of got into this.
So he took me up to Room 305.
School day was over.
It was early June.
School day was over, and
we're sitting in there.
And it didn't take long.
We started to hear furniture
being dragged around.
We started to hear
someone-- we felt
as though someone was writhing.
Someone was pacing up and down
in front of the blackboard.
And then in front
of the window, it
was on the left side of the
room, I heard a kind of a rush.
He was out of there.
-Gone.
Gone.
You know.
Later, I saw him looking,
and it scared me.
I thought it was something--
it was him looking in the glass
window of the door.
So to make a long story
short, what happened,
I did some research
on this, there
was a teacher in
this room who was
killed in the 1930s in a trolley
car accident in this area.
And the people said, aha, it's
got to be her ghost coming back
to the room.
Her spirit and all.
[INAUDIBLE] not so fast.
I said, I think what you
may be dealing with here
is a problem with time.
She goes, well-- and I actually
contacted a student of hers
from [INAUDIBLE].
He was in his 80's by that time.
He said she would always
around in front of that board,
up and down in front
of the windows,
and she would do all this
stuff that was being done
in front of these witnesses.
Right?
I think that her death
had a lot less to do
with this than her life did.
Because she was a very, very
nervous and frustrated person.
The children wouldn't dare
step out of line with her,
but they didn't really like her.
And all the kinds of emotions
that might punch a hole
in space-time and allow you to
manifest in a parallel world,
where it's to us the future,
or it's still the 1930s ,
before you got pancaked
by a trolley car,
I think that's what it's about.
It was really her in
the 1930s, walking
up and down that blackboard.
Why don't they stop?
What are they there for?
Why don't they just leave?
They don't have to leave.
See, here's the thing--
GEORGE: Do they need this?
I don't think that has
anything to do with it.
I don't if she knows she's
anywhere but in the 1930s.
Are they aware of the classroom
when they're doing their thing?
Sometimes they are.
But I think they see
them as we see us.
One example is when-- a common
thing is when you have a baby
sometimes in an area
where there's a problem,
and people will walk in,
and much to their terror,
see a figure bending
over looking at the baby.
But then you find out, well,
somebody lived in that house,
or later lives in that
house, because this could
be a manifestation of what
to us is the future as well
as the past, then you
may have someone who's
looking at their own baby.
And there are a lot
of interesting--
they see us as we see them.
I've had many cases where
" ghosts," quote, unquote,
have thought we
were ghosts haunting
them and were afraid of us.
In one Connecticut case, I had
to go downstairs and convince
the great grandparents,
who had died years ago,
that their great
granddaughter was not a ghost,
because they were afraid of her.
GEORGE: They thought
they were the ghosts.
PAUL: So they're in
parallel worlds where--
-I've seen that.
-Yeah.
So I mean, that's-- I
don't think we're dealing
with spirits here.
What has been for you
the most fulfilling aspect
of what you're doing, Paul?
What is it about this?
I think if you approach it
this way, it gives people hope.
And people need hope
today, because there
isn't a lot of it around.
GEORGE: They need lots of hope.
They need lots of hope.
And the idea of, getting
back to that question,
am I going to be
OK, answered maybe
in an entirely new way,
that's a lot easier
to maybe grasp and understand.
It can be illustrated perhaps
going beyond the question
about my father to my mother.
On our show, people
will often ask, well,
I lost my father and my mother.
How do I deal with it?
Are they still here
and all this stuff?
So my mother passed away
in 2011 at the age of 95.
GEORGE: That's when my dad died.
2011 at the age of 88.
PAUL: Wow.
OK.
-December 3.
-All right.
So people wrote in, and in
so many words, they said,
OK, wise guy, how do
you deal with loss?
You're always telling
us how to deal with it.
I said, you know, I have
a better relationship
with my mother now
than I ever had,
because it's not
that she's with me,
but I'm with her in so
many parallel worlds--
GEORGE: Yes, I
feel the same way.
--where she never died.
And again, it's all
in our subconscious.
I think our entire
subconscious is
made up of lives
we're living, just
as conscious as they are here.
And this life we're living
here is subconscious there.
And I think it's a very
elegant kind of harmony.
I think so too.
Paul, thanks for being
on "Beyond Belief."
And if people want to monitor
you, what's your website?
Behindtheparanormal.com.
GEORGE: Simple as that?
-Simple as that.
GEORGE: Give your
son Ben my regards.
Would you?
-I will.
Thank you, Paul.
-Thank you, George.
-OK.
So I know you've been
peeking at your television
watching this program.
You can take the
covers back down.
Everything's OK.
And I'll see you on another
edition of "Beyond Belief."